=========================
Return to the Marco Stone
=========================

* Change test_train split
  * We need to improve this by either
    * using a statistic (mean/median/etc)
    * grouping before test-train split
* relative gammas revisit
  * Marco uses the *ratio* of the gammas.  Is this better?  Worse?  Neutral?
  * Should we avoid training on mismatches with low starting gamma?
* Features
  * position
  * transition
  * cross?
  * other features
    * GC content (BEWARE RNA/DNA BINDING AFFINITY)
    * Change in GC content
    * Other change in affinity prediction
  * Adjacent bases
  * basically any "parent guide" feature

* Max 2016 eLife
* Try systematic exclusion of features
* Evaluate variance explained
* Goal: Be able to design 10 guides with confidence that some 5 form a ladder
* Predicted vs. Actual (or Predicted-Actual)
* Build a neural net to *design* mismatch guides???
* Validate with Flow

Near-term Agenda
++++++++++++++++

First Tier
----------

* Fix the test data splitting.
* Add evaluation/prediction of some sort.
* "delta" -- subtractive vs. geometric...

* filter guides with low gammas...
* sampling across genes or families...

Second Tier
-----------

* Add cross of mismatch location (?)
* Add GC content
* Add proximal bases

Third Tier
----------

* Experiment with Neural Nets, Elastic Net, SVM, ...
* Experiment with hyperparameters like optimizer
* Build stub version of absolute predictor
* Figure out inverted prediction (i.e. directly design guide for efficacy)

Jason/Carol meeting 20180430
============================


