================================
META GOAL 1: Design Next Library
================================

* Identify most phenotypically informative guides in existing set
* Predict efficacy/information of future guides.

===============================================================
META GOAL 2: Extract Biological Insight From Growth Experiments
===============================================================

* Distinguish **Biology** vs. **Noise** vs. **Bias**
* Ascribe semantics to mathematical **Biology**

=========
Questions
=========

1. How can we best estimate growth phenotypes?

  * What is "true gamma"? (gamma is not a fixed point, varies by context.)
  * Is SVD-smoothing data a good approximation?
  * How can we validate/evaluate our approximation?
  * How many components should we retain?

2. How can we best characterize/clean **Noise** and **Bias**?

  * Are noise/bias features reliably *sequestered* by SVD?
  * Are noise/bias features reliably *separated* by SVD?
  * Is PCA on transpose matrix a good path to predicting bias?

3. Can we use SVD to separate unknown effects from known effects?

  * In-condition vs. cross-condition (i.e. beak prevention)
  * Sequence effects vs. gene effects (i.e. guide design)

==========
Take aways
==========

1. **Do heatmaps**

  * of gammas
  * of raw log counts
  * normalize by initial count
  * cluster (if only to make rendering plausible)

2. Martin totally digs the transpose-SVD scanning

  * Identify

    * families of selected guides
    * guides that have whatever putative properties (stretches above threshold
      for homopolymer, etc.)

  * **Map those guides onto the visualization**
  * Color those guides based on a non-binary identification (similarity, in
    family vs. in-gene, etc)
  * Where do the other guies fall?
  * If they don't look like they should be included in the same set...
    * ... **Use them as Positive/Negative labels and build discriminators (SVM, ...)**
  * Can we find cases where {rule} is disrupted and then {profit}?

3. Can I collapse out...

  * ... known conditions to get at unexpected dimensions of variation
  * Martin cautions that a lot of the "unexpected dimensions" here will simply
    be a consequence of the complicated nature of *doing CRISPRi* technically.
    That might still be interesting, but it's not driving towards guide
    selection or "real" biology, for the most part.
  * ... inter-gene variability to get at guide-selection-driven variation
  * ... inter-family dimensions to get at sequence/mismatch-derived variation
  * Question left open / defferred, but *I* still think it's something to poke at.
  * Martin strongly feels that **we should be doing something to normalize
    for per-gene effects.**
  * [To me still] unclear exactly how best to do that "normalization"

4. Write a simple algorithm to, given a single gamma ascription, select 2 guides/gene

  * Compare that between methods of gamma ascription
  * Compare general guide ordering
  * Non-parametric, or whatever
  * **Evaluate the corner cases.**
  * Two methods to start:

    1. Go as late as statistically confident (how?)
    2. Use PC1
    3. (Secondary) Use PC1..N

5. Do machine learning to predict guide efficacy...

  * [Not from meeting] Add features (e.g. Nth base...) and re-compute SVD to
    see if we can find most impactful features
  * Other decomposers/discriminators/predictors...

6. Compute SVD in either orientation for just actual replicates (e.g. 5
   early-phase no-drug gammas).  How early do we see interesting variation captured.

==========
Next goals
==========

* Try SVD-painting in sets with unified span/condition.
* Expand painted set by

  * family
  * gene
  * homopolymer threshold

* Heat Maps

==========
Soon goals
==========

Design Library
--------------
* Write simple algorithm for picking guides from gammas
* Create gamma lists for

  * PC1
  * PC1..4
  * Raw average

* Non-parametric or similar comparison of ranking difference
* Or maybe just stability of selected pairs?

Build Predictor
---------------
* Add features to frame
* Try SVD "feature selection*
* Figure out basic steps to add whatever kind of predictor/classifier.

  * Remember to test-validate/bootstrap/...
